# WELCOME TO THE UTAH CYBERSEC WIKI! #
*This is a work in progess, so information will be added as often as possible, and not all information is complete, there's always more to learn about any aspect of cyberscurity or "Capture the Flags".

## Intro ##
If you want to get to the meat and potatoes, click (here)[], if you want to see what the Wiki's about, then keep reading!

This wiki will contain information on tools and tricks that can be used while tackling a CTF or while encountering a real-world challenge! From OSINT challenges to PWNs, Reversing, Forensics, and more, this Wiki will have the information and tools you need to begin work on your first flag find. Now, words like "OSINT", "PWN", what do they mean and what do they represent? Well, here's the crash-course. The "jargon" used in the above paragraph refers to several popular genres of "Capture the Flag"
* OSINT: This is are challenges that revolve around finding specific information using **public** information. If you haven't yet, check out some creators like RAINBOLT to get an idea. 
    * Explained Like I'm Five: "Extreme Googling"
* PWN: This refers to taking complete control of another system. "PWN" is a mispelling of "own" from waaaay back in the early days of PC gaming, and it's just stuck around, especially in cybersecurity, as shorthand for "owning" another person's system. Usually, these challenges involve doing recon on the target system, finding it's weakpoints, exploiting them, and becoming the root user.
    * Explained Like I'm Five: The target computer is now **YOUR** computer.
* Reverse Engineering (RE): Just like it's physical counterpart, RE refers to taking apart a finished product (some coded entity in our case) to find out how it was created. These challenges are structured such that you (the attacker) gain access to the binary or executable of a program (the target) and find out how it works. After figuring out how it's put together, time to take it apart. Maybe there's a function or API call that returns an interesting value...
    * Explained Like I'm Five: Take Program, find out how it works, make program do what I want.
* Forensics: Again, similar to the physical world, digital forensics is all about digging through code (or what's left of it) to find clues relating to the original incident (or original flag).
    * Explained Like I'm Five: Digital detective, following a cookie crumb trail of bytes....and the occasional cookiie. 
* Cryptography: Where OSINT is an open-world puzzle challenge, Cryptography is an intense brainteaser. From basic ciphers like "Caeser" and "Vigenere" to outdated encryption like MD5, to modern security behemoths like RSA and the SHA family; Cryptography is all about knowing how to "crack the code" so to say. Here, knowing **what** you're dealing with and especially **how it works** is very important. Insight is gold here.
    * Explained Like I'm Five: Cracking a vault but using a keyboard, and the vault is owned by some dude named Bob, and the key is owned by his friend Alice, and we're trying to con them both out of their respective property, and....wait, are we the baddies?
* Web Exploitaion: Here, the target system is usually a webpage or webserver of some kind. What we want to do is essentially make the webpage/server give us something it's not supposed to. Whether that be through injecting false database queries with SQL injection, or tricking the browser engine with Cross-Site Scripting, or becoming the administrator of the site by exploiting attacking related web-based services.
    * Explained Like I'm Five: Basically...learn how phisher's got so good at phishing.
* Binary Exploitation: The Classic, The Golden Standard, the Godfather, Binary Exploitation. Since day one, people have been trying to steal other people's things. Turns out, if you you steal the thing that **controls** other people's things, well, you can steal a lot. Binary Exploitation is all about finding a binary, some bit of code in some software, hardware, firmware, website, webserver, database, etc.... that has a weakness you can leverage. Find that weakness and make your target crash, or leak data, or give you a route to PWN, or any number of *unintended actions*. If you want, try and hit the program with thousands or millions of edge-cases to get it to crash and turn in that information for a bug-bounty and real-world reputation and money.
    * Explained Like I'm Five: Break stuff.

## What is a CTF Challenge and How do I Solve One? ##
CTF challenges are held by univerities, private companies, recruiting agencies, and private clubs. Many CTFs are held Jeapordy-Style. Meaning, the first person to solve a challenge receives maximum points, and each resulting solve afterwards is worth less and less. The goal is to try and solve as many challenges as you can, as soon as you can. 

When faced with a CTF tournament, you can chose which category of challenge you'd like to solve first, then take a crack at it. Open the challenge, pay **close** attention to the description and clues, and either launch the webpage, setup the docker file, or launch the challenge server. Like with programming, once you've got a problem, break it down into smaller problems and solve them first. Each little bit of help from one small problem helps. After you've solved your small problems, now it's time to break out the tools to hack the bigger problems. See what the challenge offers, and consider what approaches may help you chip away at the issue, more likely than not, there exists a tool on GitHub, SourceForge, or Gitlab that offers you the solution you need. If you're lost, try checking out this resource: (CTF Handbook)[https://ctf101.org/]

If you can't solve it as fast as you'd hoped, don't worry. Remember, we do these for two reasons: experience, and fun. If you can't solve it, try doing another challenge or take a break. It may go quickly, but spending 6 hours of intense focus on the same 2000 lines of code won't get you anymore insight than the last 5 hours did, take a break and come back fresh. 
